[adventurous music]
♪ ♪
- YOU HAVE THE MARK.
WHY DIDN'T YOU TELL ME?
- [laughing cruelly]
- [gasps]
WHO ARE YOU?
- NINA, SHH.
- NINA, YOU'RE MAKING ME
LOOK NORMAL.
- WHO--
WHO ARE YOU,
TO BREAK UP WITH ME
AMD THEN SEND ME TEXT MESSAGES
SAYING YOU STILL LIKE ME?
- I GUESS I'M JUST
A CRAZY PERSON.
- YOU WERE SENDING HER
TEXT MESSAGES
WHILE I WAS DOING
THE PRESENTATION.
CLASSY, FABIAN.
- I SIMPLY CANNOT
APOLOGIZE ENOUGH, MR. ZIESTACK.
- NO NEED, VICTOR.
THEIR YOUTHFUL ZEST
CONFIRMS THAT I'VE
MADE THE RIGHT CHOICE.
I LIKE THE PUPILS HERE.
[laughter]
- I KNEW FAB-INA
WAS STILL SUPER MUSHY.
IT'S WRITTEN
ALL OVER YOUR FACES.
- I THINK IT'S A COVER STORY.
- COVER?
FOR WHAT?
- AMBER, THIS IS SOMETHING
WE HAVE TO DO ON OUR OWN.
- COME ON, YOU GUYS.
THERE IS NO "I" IN SIBUNA.
- THERE IS, ACTUALLY, AMBER.
- I KNOW,
BUT YOU GET MY POINT.
- DOES ANYBODY CARE I'M HUNGRY?
[chains jangling]
- BACK IN THE DUSTY
CELLAR AGAIN,
JUST LIKE THE OLD TIMES,
YOU KNOW,
WHEN WE USED TO SHARE.
OUCH.
MATCHING TATTOOS
RIGHT BEFORE YOU SPLIT UP?
- IT'S THE MARK OF ANUBIS.
IT MEANS WE HAVE
TO FIND THE MASK OF ANUBIS
FOR THIS EGYPTIAN SPIRIT.
- SO FAR, SO SIBUNA.
- IF WE DON'T,
WE FORFEIT OUR LIVES.
- OH, WELL,
AT LEAST IT'S NOT LIKE
YOU'RE GONNA DIE OR ANYTHING.
- AMBER, THAT'S WHAT
"FORFEIT OUR LIVES" MEANS.
- I DIDN'T WANT ANYONE ELSE
TO GET INVOLVED
IN CASE THEY GOT CURSED TOO,
LIKE THIS CRAZY PERSON.
- WHA--IF BY "CRAZY,"
YOU MEAN "TRYING TO HELP YOU,"
THEN GUILTY AS CHARGED.
- WHEN YOU'RE DONE SQUABBLING,
I AM TRYING TO DEAL
WITH THE FACT
THAT MY BEST FRIENDS
ARE TOTALLY CURSED HERE.
- AND I KNOW HOW THAT FEELS.
SO HERE'S THE DEAL.
WE HAVE TO PUT IN
THE COMBINATION
AND GO THROUGH THAT DOOR.
YOU DON'T.
- WE CAN'T ASK YOU TO TAKE
A RISK LIKE THAT JUST FOR US.
- HAVE YOU SEEN THE COLORS
I ACCESSORIZE WITH?
I AM THE QUEEN OF RISK.
- SIBUNA.
- CAN WE GO FIND THIS MASK NOW?
BECAUSE I THINK
THEY'RE DOING CAKE UPSTAIRS.
- [sighs]
OKAY.
18-90.
HERE GOES.
[sighs]
- YEP.
[rumbling]
- YES!
- IT'S SOME KIND OF STUDY.
- SERIOUSLY, THERE ISN'T
GONNA BE SOMETHING
BEHIND DOOR NUMBER ONE
THAT ISN'T OLD AND CRUSTY?
[door slams]
- FABIAN'S BEEN GONE FOR AGES.
WHAT'S HE DOING WITH HER?
- PROBABLY JUST KISSING
OR MAKING UP,
ETCETERA, ETCETERA.
OR DOING HOMEWORK.
I MEAN, PROBABLY THAT ONE.
- THE GOOD NEWS IS,
I AM GOING FOR MY BOLT CUTTERS,
AND WHEN I RETURN,
YOU SHALL BE RELEASED.
- WHAT'S THE BAD NEWS?
AND DOES IT INVOLVE
A TOOTHBRUSH?
- ON ANY OTHER DAY, YES.
BUT LUCKILY FOR YOU,
TODAY IS A GREAT, GREAT DAY
FOR ME.
TODAY IS A GREAT DAY
FOR US ALL.
- YOUR ATTENTION, EVERYONE.
WE'VE SIGNED
ON THE DOTTED LINE,
AND THE EXHIBITION
IS OFFICIALLY OURS.
[applause]
- WHERE'S JEFFREY?
SHE WENT TO TAKE OVER
HER SPEECH.
TUT-TUT.
- SHE WAS DUMPING ME
AT THE TIME.
- MUST BE REAL HARD FOR YOU.
- I JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND
HER REASONS.
I MEAN, I THOUGHT
SHE REALLY LIKED ME.
- WELL, I MEAN, YOU STILL
GO TO AUSTRALIA NOW, RIGHT?
SEE YOU LATER,
CROCODILE DUNDEE.
- MAYBE I SHOULD TALK
TO HER AGAIN FIRST.
- BAD IDEA.
YOU DO NOT WANT
TO SEEM DESPERATE.
- OH, MICK!
YOU'RE MISSING ALL THE FUN.
HAVE A BUN.
HA!
- YAY.
- YAY!
- I TELL YOU WHAT,
I'LL TALK TO HER FOR YOU.
MARA LISTENS TO ME,
AND IF SHE'S GOT DOUBTS,
I'LL KNOW.
- I CAN'T BELIEVE YOU'RE BEING
SO SYMPATHETIC.
- MR. SYMPATHETIC.
THAT'S ME.
YOU'RE NOT EATING THAT?
- THIS MUST BE IT.
- AT LEAST WE KNOW
WE CAN GET OUT NOW.
- YEAH.
- THAT'S SARAH.
LOOK AT THIS.
R.F.S.
ROBERT FROBISHER-SMYTHE.
IT WAS SARAH'S DAD'S.
- WEIRD PLACE
TO KEEP YOUR JEWELRY.
- A MOMENTOUS OCCASION.
THE BOOK OF ISIS
IS JUST A WHISKER AWAY.
ETERNAL LIFE
IS WITHIN OUR GRASP.
- EFFICIENT RUNNING
OF THIS SCHOOL
IS WITHIN  MY GRASP, VICTOR,
BUT NOT IF I WASTE TIME
CHASING THINGS
I WILL NEVER HAVE.
- I AM SO THRILLED
TO BE INVOLVED, MR. SWEET.
I'LL ENSURE THAT NO ONE
INTERFERES WITH THE EXHIBITION,
JUST AS YOU ASKED.
- THERE'S A DIFFERENT
HIEROGLYPHIC ON EACH ONE,
A SPIDER, CROCODILE, COW...
- I'VE SEEN THESE BEFORE.
SEE?
SAME AS THE AMULETS.
BUT HOW DO THESE AMULETS
HELP US FIND THE TUNNELS?
WE'VE HIT A DEAD END.
- WAIT.
HAVE YOU SEEN THESE?
THEY LOOK LIKE JOURNALS.
R.F.S.
THEY'RE ROBERT
FROBISHER-SMYTHE'S DIARIES.
WHY DON'T WE TAKE A FEW EACH
AND SEE IF THEY MAKE
ANY REFERENCES
TO AMULETS OR DOORWAYS, YEAH?
- EH--MM...
GREAT,
BECAUSE I HAD NOTHING PLANNED
FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE.
[knocking]
- YOU LOOK HAPPY TO BE YOUNG,
FREE, AND SINGLE AGAIN.
- I'VE MADE A TERRIBLE MISTAKE.
IF HE CAME ALONG
THAT CORRIDOR NOW,
I'D TELL HIM NOT TO GO.
- OKAY, SIT DOWN.
COME ON, YOU'LL BE FINE.
COME ON.
YOU NEED SOME TIME ALONE.
I UNDERSTAND.
I TRIED.
I REALLY TRIED.
- WELL, WHAT DID SHE SAY?
- IT'S BAD.
SHE STARTED USING YOUR NAME
IN THE PAST TENSE.
- WHAT DOES THAT EVEN MEAN?
- IT MEANS SHE THINKS THE SOONER
YOU MOVE HALFWAY
AROUND THE WORLD,
THE BETTER.
- WHERE HAVE YOU BEEN?
- I'M QUITE BUSY RIGHT NOW,
SO...
- OH, TOO BUSY
TO TELL ANYONE
ABOUT THE WHOLE
AL-BER/AM-FIE THING.
TOO EMBARRASSED, MAYBE?
- OKAY, SO WE GO PUBLIC,
BUT I TELL PEOPLE
IN MY OWN WAY
IN MY OWN TIME.
GOT IT?
- GOT IT.
LET'S SEAL THE DEAL.
- HEY!
YOU'RE FABIAN'S GODFATHER,
AREN'T YOU?
THE TOTAL ANCIENT EXPERT.
KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT OMELETS?
- OMELETS?
- BIG SHINY THINGS WITH PICTURES
OF ANIMALS ON THEM.
- DO YOU MEAN AMULETS?
- WOW.
SO YOU REALLY ARE AN EXPERT.
- "TODAY I SAW A CLOUD
THAT LOOKED LIKE A SPHINX.
WHAT A JOY IT IS
TO BE ALIVE."
THIS IS SO BORING.
- IF I READ ANYMORE,
MY EYES ARE GONNA FALL OUT.
- I'VE GOT THE LOWDOWN
ON THE AMULETS,
NOT OMELETS,
WHATEVER YOU TWO MIGHT THINK.
THEY WERE WORN FOR PROTECTION.
- PROTECTION?
AGAINST WHAT?
- BAD LUCK, DANGER,
EVIL SPIRITS.
- HOW DID YOU FIND THAT OUT,
AMBER?
- I'VE ALWAYS BEEN
THE BRAINS OF SIBUNA.
THAT'S WHY YOU NEED ME.
OKAY, I ASKED JASPER.
BUT HE'S YOUR GODFATHER.
WE CAN TRUST HIM, RIGHT?
- YEAH, BUT WE STILL NEED
TO BE DISCREET.
- LOOK, I THINK WE SHOULD GO
AND TAKE ANOTHER LOOK
AT THOSE AMULETS.
YEAH?
[clinking on glass]
- UH, GUYS...
SO...I SPOKE TO MR. SWEET.
IT'S OFFICIAL.
I'M MOVING TO AUSTRALIA.
- WHAT?
- WHEN DO YOU LEAVE?
- TOMORROW.
- TOMORROW?
IT'S SO DECIDED?
- WELL, I RECKON SOME PEOPLE
JUST CAN'T WAIT TO SEE ME GO.
- BUT, I--
I...
- WE SHOULD NEVER
HAVE LET AMBER GET INVOLVED.
IF ANYTHING HAPPENS TO HER,
I'LL NEVER FORGIVE MYSELF.
- HEY, IT WON'T COME TO THAT.
- BUT WE'VE REACHED
A DEAD END.
I DON'T THINK THE SPIRIT'S
EXACTLY GONNA BE THRILLED
WITH US.
- THESE AMULETS
MUST MEAN SOMETHING.
AMBER SAID, "PROTECTION
AGAINST EVIL SPIRITS."
- YEAH, I JUST THINK IT'S
GONNA TAKE MORE THAN A NECKLACE
TO PROTECT US FROM THIS CURSE.
FABIAN.
COME LOOK AT THIS!
- FABIAN, COME LOOK AT THIS!
SO WE FOUND
OUR HIDDEN TUNNEL SYSTEM.
IT'S BEHIND THE BOOKSHELF.
- WE JUST NEED
TO TRIGGER THE OPENING,
SO I WAS THINKING WE'D GO
BACK DOWN THERE LATER TONIGHT,
OR SOONER.
- WHOA, TRUDY, HOW MANY PEOPLE
ARE ACTUALLY LEAVING?
- WELL...
MICK ISN'T THE ONLY ONE.
I'VE BEEN OFFERED A JOB.
ASSISTANT CURATOR
AT THE EXHIBITION.
- FIRST MICK, NOW YOU.
SINCE WHEN DID EVERYONE
BECOME SO SELFISH?
I NEED YOU, TRUDY.
- WHAT IF WE GET SOMEONE
WHO DOESN'T THINK IT'S FUNNY
TO PULL SPAGHETTI OUT YOUR NOSE?
- [laughs]
- DON'T, PLEASE.
I'M MISSING YOU ALL ALREADY.
SO...MICK,
ONE MORE DAY
AND IT'S, "G'DAY, AUSTRALIA."
- READY FOR BOOT CAMP?
- REALLY, NOT.
I GUESS I NEED TO GET BACK DOWN
TO MY P.B.
RIGHT, MARA?
- RIGHT, COME ON.
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO
FOR HIS SEND-OFF.
- I'VE GOT ENOUGH FOOD
IN THERE TO FEED A MICK.
- I'M THINKING...
OPERATION "MAKE IT SEEM
LIKE WE DON'T CARE,
AND THEN WE JUMP OUT
AND TELL HIM WE LOVE HIM."
[all agreeing]
- SO, POP QUIZ.
IS IT JUST A COINCIDENCE
THAT YOU BROKE UP WITH MICK
AT EXACTLY THE RIGHT MOMENT
TO MAKE HIM FOLLOW HIS DREAMS?
- PASS.
MY TURN.
WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO HELP POPPY
TRACK DOWN YOUR DAD?
SHE NEEDS YOU.
- PASS.
- YOUR DAD CLEARLY HAS STUFF
HE NEEDS TO SAY TO YOU.
- I SHOULD BE TAKING NOTES.
YOU'RE CLEARLY THE AUTHORITY
ON HONESTY.
- ME AND MICK
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH YOU.
OH, AND ANOTHER THING,
YEAH, MAYBE I AM INTERFERING,
BUT I JUST WANT TO STOP YOU
DOING SOMETHING YOU'LL REGRET.
- MARA...
WHAT DID YOU SAY TO HER, CLARKE?
- ME?
I'M THE ONE WHO
JUST GOT SLAMMED.
BUT I GUESS YOU KNOW
HOW THAT FEELS.
- WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE FRIENDS.
I MEAN, IT JUST SEEMS
LIKE SHE DOESN'T WANT TO KNOW.
YOU KNOW, THE SOONER I'M OUT
OF HERE, THE BETTER.
- TRUDY WILL BE
IN THE LIBRARY, SO WE CAN--
OH.
- OF COURSE,
MICK'S LEAVING PARTY.
BUT WE'LL NEVER GET PAST.
- SHAME.
LET'S GO CHOOSE WHAT TO WEAR.
- OR WE CAN BORROW
THE CELLAR KEY
FROM VICTOR'S OFFICE.
IT MIGHT BE
OUR ONLY CHANCE TODAY.
- NINA, NO!
- OH, BLESS YOU.
YOU'VE COME TO HELP.
- YEAH.
- COME ON, AMBER.
[door slams]
- UH...
LOOKS LIKE OUR CELLAR TRIP
IS CANCELLED.
- HMM?
NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
VICTOR.
VICTOR!
- HEY.
- VICTOR!
- YES, IS THERE SOME KIND
OF EMERGENCY?
- UH...
WAIT, MICK,
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
YOU'RE NOT LEAVING NOW,
ARE YOU?
- YEAH, I THOUGHT I'D GET
AN EARLIER TRAIN.
I HATE GOOD-BYES.
- WELL, I MUST PREPARE
FOR THE ARRIVAL
OF THE EXHIBIT,
SO IF YOU HAVE NOTHING
OF ANY CONSEQUENCE TO SAY...
- [stuttering]
W-W-W-WAIT.
WAIT, WAIT!
YES, I DO.
VICTOR, IT'S PARTY TIME.
♪ FOR HE'S A JOLLY GOOD FELLOW ♪
♪ FOR HE'S
A JOLLY GOOD FELLOW ♪
THAT'S RIGHT, VICTOR.
IT'S PARTY TIME!
- I DID NOT AUTHORIZE
ANY PARTY.
- UH, BIT EARLY, FABIAN.
WE'RE NOT READY YET.
- THERE'S NO TIME
LIKE THE PRESENT, TRUDY.
WHOO!
SURPRISE.
all: SURPRISE!
- OH.
- [grumbling indistinctly]
- THAT WAS TOO CLOSE.
DID YOU GET IT?
- NOPE.
BACK TO PLAN "A."
- WHOA, WHOA, WHOA, LOOK OUT.
[laughter]
all: SURPRISE!
[applause]
- OH, GUYS, THANKS SO...
THIS IS AMAZING.
- COME AND GET SOME FOOD.
TRUDY'S MADE A CAKE
WITH YOUR FACE ON IT.
- YEAH, I'LL BE THERE
IN ONE SEC.
- MARA A NO-SHOW.
I'M SORRY, MICK.
- AH, SHE'S STILL
FREEZING ME OUT.
[knocking]
- OH, COME ON.
THE GUY YOU'VE WANTED
SINCE FOREVER IS LEAVING.
I KNOW I JUST COULDN'T SIT HERE.
- OKAY, I GIVE YOU BOTH
PERMISSION TO SLAP ME
IF I EVER GET LIKE THIS
OVER A BOY.
ACTUALLY, I'M GOOD.
I'VE BEEN SLAPPED ENOUGH.
- I'M PUTTING HIM FIRST.
I CAN'T LET HIM STAY FOR ME...
EVEN IF THAT MEANS
SITTING RIGHT HERE
TILL HE'S GONE.
- GUYS, COME ON.
[upbeat pop music]
- ALL GET TOGETHER.
- YEAH, GET TOGETHER, OKAY.
- ONE MORE, COME ON.
- SMILE.
- AND 3-2-1.
- ONE MORE, ONE MORE.
- THERE WE GO.
- DO ONE OVER THIS WAY.
OOH, THAT'S A GOOD PICTURE,
ACTUALLY.
- SORRY, MICK,
BUT YOUR TAXI'S WAITING.
- BYE, MATE.
- BYE, MICK.
- I HOPE YOU'LL BE OKAY.
I WANTED TO GIVE YOU THIS.
I KNOW IT DIDN'T EXACTLY
BRING US LUCK, BUT...
I BET THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT
IN AUSTRALIA.
- THANKS, AMBS.
NO MARA?
I GUESS, UH...
I BETTER BE GOING THEN.
- YOU GUYS OKAY?
- YEAH.
LET'S DO SOMETHING
TO TAKE OUR MINDS OFF IT.
THEY JUST MADE THEMSELVES
SCARCE, SO...
- I NEVER THOUGHT I'D SAY THIS,
BUT BRING ON THE CELLAR.
- OH, BYE, LOVIE.
- OH, BYE.
- GONNA MISS YOU.
- MICK!
MICK!
- YOU WANTED TO MAKE SURE
I'VE DEFINITELY GONE?
- NO, THERE'S SOMETHING
I REALLY HAVE TO SAY.
- LISTEN, ME FIRST.
I WANT TO SAY THANKS...
FOR EVERYTHING.
IF YOU HADN'T BEEN SO HONEST,
I REALLY WOULDN'T
BE DOING THIS.
HEY, SNAP.
WHAT DID YOU WANT TO SAY?
- NOTHING, JUST...
DON'T YOU DARE FORGET ME.
- AS IF.
- BYE, MICK.
- THAT WAS REALLY BRAVE.
HE'LL UNDERSTAND ONE DAY.
- YOU THINK?
THIS IS MICK
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
OW!
I'M KIDDING.
COME ON, GUYS.
LET'S GO EAT.
BEFORE ALFIE PERSONALLY
INHALES THE BUFFET.
- POPPY CLARKE,
YOU WILL NEVER MAKE
A CAT BURGLAR.
- I WAS LOOKING FOR MARA,
NOT YOU.
- TELL ME YOU WEREN'T
GOING ON A QUEST.
- WELL, IF YOU WEREN'T
GOING TO HELP ME...
- DAD REALLY WENT TO ANUBIS.
YOU WEREN'T MAKING THAT UP.
- YUP.
SAME TIME AS SWEETIE.
DOESN'T IT MAKE YOU CURIOUS?
COME ON, JEROME.
THERE'S STUFF WE NEED TO KNOW.
- IF WE DO THIS,
WE'RE GONNA DO IT PROPERLY.
I'M GONNA HIRE
A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR.
[coins clinking]
CORRECTION:
WE ARE GOING TO HIRE
A PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR, YEAH?
- THERE'S NO HIDDEN CATCH,
BUT THERE IS THIS SYMBOL
OF A BIRD
ON THE TOP SHELF HERE.
- I'VE SEEN THAT SOMEWHERE.
HERE IT IS.
IT'S THE IBIS,
THE SYMBOL OF THOTH,
THE GOD OF WISDOM AND LEARNING.
- HE SOUNDS AWESOME.
I'VE SEEN HIM BEFORE,
ON ONE OF THESE BOOKS.
YEP, HERE HE IS,
OUR CRAZY, FUN-TIME GOD
OF MOLDY OLD BOOKS.
I TAKE IT BACK.
BOOKS ARE AWESOME.
LET ME OUT!
[screaming]